backend/decisions-app-code.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Architecture Decisions: Services & Code Style"
nav_order: 1000
parent: Backend
---

# Architecture Decisions: App & Code

## Fields that are not visible to the user due to access rights must not appear in the response at all

Date: 12/09/2023

Why?
- We want to be able to distinguish between `null` values and values that are not visible to the user.

Examples:
- The name is visible and has a value: `{"id": 1, "name": "John"}`
- The name is visible but is set to `null`: `{"id": 1, "name": null}`
- The name is not visible: `{"id": 1}`


## Swagger documentation for Responses and Requests must always specify `Nullable` and `required: true` when applicable

Date: 31/08/2023

- When a field is always present (response) or must always be given (request), it must have a `// required:true` annotation. Otherwise, no annotation.
- When a field can have the value `null`, for both responses and requests, it must have a `// Nullable` annotation.

**The single source of truth for Nullable is the database.**

Example:
```
type item struct {
	// required:true
	ID int64 `json:"id,string"`
	// required:true
	// Nullable
	// enum: Chapter,Task,Skill
	Type *string `json:"type"`
	// required:true
	// Nullable
	Title *string `json:"title"`
	// required:true
	LanguageTag string `json:"language_tag"`
}
```

Why?
- Because it has an influence on how the frontend or other third-party treat the responses.


## End Of Line must be LF

Date: 22/03/2023

Why?
- go-fmt automatically changes the line endings of *.go files with LF. Make it LF everywhere for consistency.

Commit message:

Add architecture decision about the env and config.

backend/decisions-app-code.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Architecture Decisions: Services & Code Style"
nav_order: 1000
parent: Backend
---

# Architecture Decisions: App & Code


## The environment is forced to `test` in the tests, can never be `test` when running the application, and the `test` environment only read its configuration from `config.yaml.test`, and never from `config.yaml`

Date: 05/06/2024

Why?
- We want to make sure tests are never run on a live database because they erase all the data.

More info and discussion: https://github.com/France-ioi/AlgoreaBackend/pull/1085


## Fields that are not visible to the user due to access rights must not appear in the response at all

Date: 12/09/2023

Why?
- We want to be able to distinguish between `null` values and values that are not visible to the user.

Examples:
- The name is visible and has a value: `{"id": 1, "name": "John"}`
- The name is visible but is set to `null`: `{"id": 1, "name": null}`
- The name is not visible: `{"id": 1}`


## Swagger documentation for Responses and Requests must always specify `Nullable` and `required: true` when applicable

Date: 31/08/2023

- When a field is always present (response) or must always be given (request), it must have a `// required:true` annotation. Otherwise, no annotation.
- When a field can have the value `null`, for both responses and requests, it must have a `// Nullable` annotation.

**The single source of truth for Nullable is the database.**

Example:
```
type item struct {
	// required:true
	ID int64 `json:"id,string"`
	// required:true
	// Nullable
	// enum: Chapter,Task,Skill
	Type *string `json:"type"`
	// required:true
	// Nullable
	Title *string `json:"title"`
	// required:true
	LanguageTag string `json:"language_tag"`
}
```

Why?
- Because it has an influence on how the frontend or other third-party treat the responses.


## End Of Line must be LF

Date: 22/03/2023

Why?
- go-fmt automatically changes the line endings of *.go files with LF. Make it LF everywhere for consistency.
