backend/services_running_propagations.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Services running propagations"
nav_order: 560
parent: Backend
---
# Services running propagations

| file                                             | service                  | groups ancestors                                                            | items ancestors                   | permissions                                                                                                                                                                            | results                                                                     |
|:-------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| app/api/answers/submit.go                        | itemGetAnswerToken       |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/auth/create_access_token.go              | accessTokenCreate        | sync (if the code is given)                                                 |                                   | sync (if new badges are loaded and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                             | sync (if new badges are loaded)                                             |
| app/api/auth/create_temp_user.go                 | tempUserCreate           | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/contests/set_additional_time.go          | contestSetAdditionalTime | sync (if groups_groups.expires_at is changed)                               |                                   | sync (if groups_groups.expires_at is changed and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                             | sync (if groups_groups.expires_at is changed)                               |
| app/api/currentuser/accept_group_invitation.go   | groupInvitationAccept    | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/currentuser/create_group_join_request.go | groupJoinRequestCreate   | sync (if the request is automatically accepted)                             |                                   | sync (if the request is automatically accepted and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                           | sync (if the request is automatically accepted)                             |
| app/api/currentuser/delete.go                    | currentUserDeletion      | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/currentuser/join_group_by_code.go        | groupsJoinByCode         | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/currentuser/leave_group.go               | groupLeave               | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                       | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/currentuser/refresh.go                   | userDataRefresh          | sync (if new badges are loaded)                                             |                                   | sync (if new badges are loaded and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                             | sync (if new badges are loaded)                                             |
| app/api/groups/accept_join_requests.go           | groupJoinRequestsAccept  | sync (if there are join requests to accept)                                 |                                   | sync (if there are join requests to accept and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                               | sync (if there are join requests to accept)                                 |
| app/api/groups/accept_leave_requests.go          | groupLeaveRequestsAccept | sync (if there are leave requests to accept)                                |                                   | sync (if there are leave requests to accept and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                | sync (if there are leave requests to accept)                                |
| app/api/groups/add_child.go                      | groupAddChild            | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/groups/create_group.go                   | groupCreate              | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/create_invitations.go             | groupInvitationsCreate   | sync (if at least one join request is automatically accepted)               |                                   | sync (if at least one join request is automatically accepted and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                             | sync (if at least one join request is automatically accepted)               |
| app/api/groups/create_user_batch.go              | createUserBatch          | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/delete_group.go                   | groupDelete              | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/remove_child.go                   | groupRemoveChild         | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if a child group is deleted or 'group_membership' permissions are removed)                                                                                                       |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/remove_members.go                 | groupMembersRemove       | sync (if at least one member is removed)                                    |                                   | sync (if at least one member is removed and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                    | sync (if at least one member is removed)                                    |
| app/api/groups/remove_user_batch.go              | userBatchRemove          | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/update_group.go                   | groupUpdate              | sync (if group members are removed because of approval rules strengthening) |                                   | sync (if group members are removed because of approval rules strengthening and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation) | sync (if group members are removed because of approval rules strengthening) |
| app/api/groups/update_permissions.go             | updatePermissions        |                                                                             |                                   | sync                                                                                                                                                                                   | sync (if 'can_view' or 'is_owner' is changed)                               |
| app/api/items/apply_dependency.go                | itemDependencyApply      |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked)                                                                                                                                                | sync (if at least one item is unlocked)                                     |
| app/api/items/ask_hint.go                        | itemGetHintToken         |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/create_attempt.go                  | attemptCreate            |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/create_item.go                     | itemCreate               |                                                                             | async*                            | async*                                                                                                                                                                                 | async*                                                                      |
| app/api/items/delete_item.go                     | itemDelete               |                                                                             | sync                              | sync                                                                                                                                                                                   | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/end_attempt.go                     | itemAttemptEnd           | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/items/enter.go                           | itemEnter                | sync (if items.participants_group_id is not null)                           |                                   | sync (if items.participants_group_id is not null and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                         | sync (if items.participants_group_id is not null)                           |
| app/api/items/generate_task_token.go             | itemTaskTokenGenerate    |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/save_grade.go                      | saveGrade                |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/start_result.go                    | resultStart              |                                                                             |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        | async* (if the result is inserted or updated)                               |
| app/api/items/start_result_path.go               | resultStartPath          |                                                                             |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        | async* (if the result are to be inserted)                                   |
| app/api/items/update_item.go                     | itemUpdate               |                                                                             | async* (if children are modified) | async* (if children are modified)                                                                                                                                                      | async* (if children/no_score/validation_type are modified)                  |

async* works as follows:
1. It tries to schedule an async propagation of the specified kind by calling a special HTTP endpoint.
2. If the endpoint succeeds, the specified propagation really runs async.
3. If the endpoint fails (due to a network error, a 3-second timeout, or a non-200 HTTP response), no matter which of propagations it tried to schedule, it synchronously runs the sequence of three propagations:
   - items ancestors,
   - permissions,
   - results.

🤷

As of April 2024, since, instead of running sync propagations in the same transaction, we run them in separate transactions, objects marked for propagations are shared between all DB sessions. This means that if a sync propagation is run in one DB session, it processes all objects marked for this propagation, no matter which DB session marked them. So, when an endpoint runs a sync propagation to recompute some objects, it also recomputes all objects currently marked as modified by other endpoints/users. This can lead to surprisingly long propagation times even for small changes.

🤷

Commit message:

backend/services_running_propagations.md: add a note about impossibility of running sync and async results propagations simultaneously; reformat the notes

backend/services_running_propagations.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Services running propagations"
nav_order: 560
parent: Backend
---
# Services running propagations

| file                                             | service                  | groups ancestors                                                            | items ancestors                   | permissions                                                                                                                                                                            | results                                                                     |
|:-------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| app/api/answers/submit.go                        | itemGetAnswerToken       |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/auth/create_access_token.go              | accessTokenCreate        | sync (if the code is given)                                                 |                                   | sync (if new badges are loaded and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                             | sync (if new badges are loaded)                                             |
| app/api/auth/create_temp_user.go                 | tempUserCreate           | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/contests/set_additional_time.go          | contestSetAdditionalTime | sync (if groups_groups.expires_at is changed)                               |                                   | sync (if groups_groups.expires_at is changed and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                             | sync (if groups_groups.expires_at is changed)                               |
| app/api/currentuser/accept_group_invitation.go   | groupInvitationAccept    | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/currentuser/create_group_join_request.go | groupJoinRequestCreate   | sync (if the request is automatically accepted)                             |                                   | sync (if the request is automatically accepted and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                           | sync (if the request is automatically accepted)                             |
| app/api/currentuser/delete.go                    | currentUserDeletion      | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/currentuser/join_group_by_code.go        | groupsJoinByCode         | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/currentuser/leave_group.go               | groupLeave               | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                       | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/currentuser/refresh.go                   | userDataRefresh          | sync (if new badges are loaded)                                             |                                   | sync (if new badges are loaded and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                             | sync (if new badges are loaded)                                             |
| app/api/groups/accept_join_requests.go           | groupJoinRequestsAccept  | sync (if there are join requests to accept)                                 |                                   | sync (if there are join requests to accept and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                               | sync (if there are join requests to accept)                                 |
| app/api/groups/accept_leave_requests.go          | groupLeaveRequestsAccept | sync (if there are leave requests to accept)                                |                                   | sync (if there are leave requests to accept and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                | sync (if there are leave requests to accept)                                |
| app/api/groups/add_child.go                      | groupAddChild            | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/groups/create_group.go                   | groupCreate              | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/create_invitations.go             | groupInvitationsCreate   | sync (if at least one join request is automatically accepted)               |                                   | sync (if at least one join request is automatically accepted and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                             | sync (if at least one join request is automatically accepted)               |
| app/api/groups/create_user_batch.go              | createUserBatch          | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/delete_group.go                   | groupDelete              | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/remove_child.go                   | groupRemoveChild         | sync                                                                        |                                   | sync (if a child group is deleted or 'group_membership' permissions are removed)                                                                                                       |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/remove_members.go                 | groupMembersRemove       | sync (if at least one member is removed)                                    |                                   | sync (if at least one member is removed and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                    | sync (if at least one member is removed)                                    |
| app/api/groups/remove_user_batch.go              | userBatchRemove          | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/groups/update_group.go                   | groupUpdate              | sync (if group members are removed because of approval rules strengthening) |                                   | sync (if group members are removed because of approval rules strengthening and 'group_membership' permissions are removed or at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation) | sync (if group members are removed because of approval rules strengthening) |
| app/api/groups/update_permissions.go             | updatePermissions        |                                                                             |                                   | sync                                                                                                                                                                                   | sync (if 'can_view' or 'is_owner' is changed)                               |
| app/api/items/apply_dependency.go                | itemDependencyApply      |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked)                                                                                                                                                | sync (if at least one item is unlocked)                                     |
| app/api/items/ask_hint.go                        | itemGetHintToken         |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/create_attempt.go                  | attemptCreate            |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/create_item.go                     | itemCreate               |                                                                             | async*                            | async*                                                                                                                                                                                 | async*                                                                      |
| app/api/items/delete_item.go                     | itemDelete               |                                                                             | sync                              | sync                                                                                                                                                                                   | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/end_attempt.go                     | itemAttemptEnd           | sync                                                                        |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                             |
| app/api/items/enter.go                           | itemEnter                | sync (if items.participants_group_id is not null)                           |                                   | sync (if items.participants_group_id is not null and at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                         | sync (if items.participants_group_id is not null)                           |
| app/api/items/generate_task_token.go             | itemTaskTokenGenerate    |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/save_grade.go                      | saveGrade                |                                                                             |                                   | sync (if at least one item is unlocked by the results propagation)                                                                                                                     | sync                                                                        |
| app/api/items/start_result.go                    | resultStart              |                                                                             |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        | async* (if the result is inserted or updated)                               |
| app/api/items/start_result_path.go               | resultStartPath          |                                                                             |                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                        | async* (if the result are to be inserted)                                   |
| app/api/items/update_item.go                     | itemUpdate               |                                                                             | async* (if children are modified) | async* (if children are modified)                                                                                                                                                      | async* (if children/no_score/validation_type are modified)                  |

async* works as follows:
1. It tries to schedule an async propagation of the specified kind by calling a special HTTP endpoint.
2. If the endpoint succeeds, the specified propagation really runs async.
3. If the endpoint fails (due to a network error, a 3-second timeout, or a non-200 HTTP response), no matter which of propagations it tried to schedule, it synchronously runs the sequence of three propagations:
   - items ancestors,
   - permissions,
   - results.

🤷

## Notes

### Objects marked for propagations are shared between all DB sessions

As of April 2024, since, instead of running sync propagations in the same transaction, we run them in separate transactions, objects marked for propagations are shared between all DB sessions. This means that if a sync propagation is run in one DB session, it processes all objects marked for this propagation, no matter which DB session marked them. So, when an endpoint runs a sync propagation to recompute some objects, it also recomputes all objects currently marked as modified by other endpoints/users. This can lead to surprisingly long propagation times even for small changes. 🤷

### Impossibility of running sync and async results propagations simultaneously
It's easy to see that there are many endpoints that run sync results propagations. At the same time, there are some endpoints that run async results propagations. As the results propagation is run under a named lock, it's possible that a sync results propagation is waiting for an async results propagation to finish completely. This can lead to lock wait timeouts resulting in a server error response. 🤷

Happily, we have a solution for this: we can completely disable sync results propagations (with a special config setting) and run only async results propagations. This is the only way to avoid lock wait timeouts.
