ops/backend_migrations.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Backend database migrations
nav_order: 1100
parent: Ops (installation, running, ...)
---

# Database migration

We use the package [sql-migrate](https://github.com/rubenv/sql-migrate) to handle database migrations.

Each migration is a *.sql file named `$NUMBER$_migration_name.sql` located in `db/migrations/`.

The migrations are run in ascending order of `$NUMBER$`.

The table `gorp_migration` in the database keeps track of which migrations have been run, *by filename*, and when.


## Create a migration

In order to create a new migration, create the migration file `$NUMBER$_migration_name.sql`. Make sure that `$NUMBER$` is higher than the previous migrations by some margin, to allow the possibility of creating another migration in between if needed, and to avoid conflicts with others current work.

The file is split between two blocks: `-- +migrate Up` to make the migrations, and `-- +migrate Down` to undo it.

```
-- +migrate Up
UPDATE `items_strings` SET `image_url` = SUBSTRING(`image_url`, 1, 2048) WHERE LENGTH(`image_url`) > 2048;
ALTER TABLE `items_strings` MODIFY COLUMN `image_url` varchar(2048) DEFAULT NULL COMMENT 'Url of a small image associated with this item.';

-- +migrate Down
ALTER TABLE `items_strings` MODIFY COLUMN `image_url` TEXT DEFAULT NULL COMMENT 'Url of a small image associated with this item.';
```

In case you need to write complex SQL statement like a trigger, **the DELIMITER keyword will NOT work**. Instead, you'll have to use the `-- +migrate StatementBegin`/`-- +migrate StatementEnd` block to be able to use `;`:

```

-- +migrate StatementBegin
CREATE TRIGGER itemTextIdUniqueUpdate BEFORE UPDATE ON `items` FOR EACH ROW BEGIN
  SET @counter = 1;
  SET NEW.`text_id_unique` = OLD.`text_id`;
  WHILE exists (SELECT 1 FROM `items` WHERE `items`.`text_id_unique` = NEW.`text_id_unique`) DO
    SET NEW.`text_id_unique` = CONCAT(OLD.`text_id`, @counter);
    SET @counter = @counter + 1;
  END WHILE;
END
-- +migrate StatementEnd
```

Also, note that **each migration is run in a transaction**, so you don't need to create one yourself.


## Run the migrations

Run the command `AlgoreaBackend db-migrate` to run the migrations that weren't previously run.


## Undo the last migration

Run the command `AlgoreaBackend db-migrate-undo`.


## Resources

* [sql-migrate Documentation](https://github.com/rubenv/sql-migrate)

Commit message:

Update migration file name with datetime format

ops/backend_migrations.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Backend database migrations
nav_order: 1100
parent: Ops (installation, running, ...)
---

# Database migration

We use the package [sql-migrate](https://github.com/rubenv/sql-migrate) to handle database migrations.

Each migration is a *.sql file named `$DATETIME$_migration_name.sql` located in `db/migrations/`.

`$DATETIME$` format is `YYMMDDHHII` -> 2301011000 for the 1st of January 2023 at 10:00.

The migrations are run in ascending order of filename, thus in ascending order of `$DATETIME$`.

The table `gorp_migration` in the database keeps track of which migrations have been run, *by filename*, and when.


## Create a migration

In order to create a new migration, create the migration file `$DATETIME$_migration_name.sql`.

The file is split between two blocks: `-- +migrate Up` to make the migrations, and `-- +migrate Down` to undo it.

```
-- +migrate Up
UPDATE `items_strings` SET `image_url` = SUBSTRING(`image_url`, 1, 2048) WHERE LENGTH(`image_url`) > 2048;
ALTER TABLE `items_strings` MODIFY COLUMN `image_url` varchar(2048) DEFAULT NULL COMMENT 'Url of a small image associated with this item.';

-- +migrate Down
ALTER TABLE `items_strings` MODIFY COLUMN `image_url` TEXT DEFAULT NULL COMMENT 'Url of a small image associated with this item.';
```

In case you need to write complex SQL statement like a trigger, **the DELIMITER keyword will NOT work**. Instead, you'll have to use the `-- +migrate StatementBegin`/`-- +migrate StatementEnd` block to be able to use `;`:

```

-- +migrate StatementBegin
CREATE TRIGGER itemTextIdUniqueUpdate BEFORE UPDATE ON `items` FOR EACH ROW BEGIN
  SET @counter = 1;
  SET NEW.`text_id_unique` = OLD.`text_id`;
  WHILE exists (SELECT 1 FROM `items` WHERE `items`.`text_id_unique` = NEW.`text_id_unique`) DO
    SET NEW.`text_id_unique` = CONCAT(OLD.`text_id`, @counter);
    SET @counter = @counter + 1;
  END WHILE;
END
-- +migrate StatementEnd
```

Also, note that **each migration is run in a transaction**, so you don't need to create one yourself.


## Run the migrations

Run the command `AlgoreaBackend db-migrate` to run the migrations that weren't previously run.


## Undo the last migration

Run the command `AlgoreaBackend db-migrate-undo`.


## Resources

* [sql-migrate Documentation](https://github.com/rubenv/sql-migrate)
